Before we carry on and actually start
writing code, what I'm going to do is
I'm going to show you what it takes to
get to the same point or without Expo.
One thing to note if you're using Expo and
you're using the Expo app, is that you
have to make sure you're on the same Wi Fi
network as your computer because basically
the JavaScript bundle that's being built,
is being sent to your phone using Wi Fi.
And if you're not on the same network,
you can't do that.
If you're already familiar
with mobile development, or
if you just really don't wanna use Expo,
you may want to use the React Native CLI.
This requires for you to install Android
Studio or Xcode depending on whether you
want to build the Android or iOS or
both In order to get started.
If you already have these installed, it
should be up and running within minutes.
But if not, it can take a couple of
hours to install and configure them,
especially Xcode is huge.
Again, if you're on Windows or Linux, you
won't be able to build on the iOS device,
Xcode only exists for the Mac.
But you can still follow this along and
build the Android app.
Now the best thing to do is
basically follow my favorite thing,
which is the React Native CLI Quickstart
guide on the React Native Website.
Here you can choose your
development operating system, and
the target operating system, and pretty
much just follow what they're doing.
And three, I'm going to do Mac and IOS.
So I already have Xcode installed.
And if you don't, you might have
to install it from the App Store,
on your on your computer.
Get the things you want to make sure we
have installed on Node, and Watchman.
Node is the JavaScript runtime,
and Watchman is basically
a tool that allows us to hot
update with React Native And
again, if you've already
installed Node on your system,
make sure you have Node 8.3 in URL.
And if you don't have it,
you can install it from the Node website.
Okay, there you go,
there's a link to Xcode to us,
if you don't already have Xcode, you'll
have to install it from the Mac App Store.
So I already have this installed.
So I don't need to do that.
And this will also install
the iOS Simulators.
And all the necessary tools to build
iOS app, this is why it's so huge,
it does everything.
We'll have to install CocoaPods as well,
CocoaPods is basically the iOS,
Package management system.
So you can think of it as npm for
native iOS, it's a little bit different.
But if it helps,
that's basically what it does All right,
so if you have installed Xcode,
Node, CocoaPods,
now you should be ready to do this,
all right.
So, I think I'm gonna go back here, and
I'm gonna initialize my
React Native awesome project.
I'm going to be using mpx for this,
if you've never used that before it's
actually a utility tool that's built into
npm that allows you to run CLI commands
without installing things globally.
So you remember we
installed Expo globally,
whereas in the React Native
docs they recommend using mpx.
So who am I to argue?
You notice that this takes quite a long
time because, there's a lot to do.
Okay.
So this actually, I didn't know
that I was very brave yesterday and
I upgraded my operating system,
which it looks like
it's uninstalled CocoaPods which so
I didn't know that this did that.
But apparently it actually tells me
that it will install CocoaPods for
me, which I'm going to do.
That was good to know.
My pods installation failed,
I'm gonna try installing them using this.
>> Do you write exactly
the same experience?
>> [LAUGH] Yeah, I'm gonna have to
report it to the React Native folks.
Yeah, we've done it.
So happy.
Right, okay.
So now,
Right, so in order to run
like a React Native project,
you actually have to do two things.
So, the first you have
to start the packager.
And secondly,
you have to build the actual native app.
So if you do the command
to build the native app,
it does start the packager for
you automatically.
But I like to do this
explicitly because I would like to
know what the packager is up to.
So, I'm gonna do yarn start or
npm run start if you're using npm.
So this is just starting a packager.
And then in a different tab,
I'm gonna go to the same directory,
and then I'm gonna do npx
react-native run-ios.
So, this will build, install, and
launch the application on
your default iOS Simulator.
And on the first time you do it,
it will take a little while, because it's
building all the binaries from scratch.
But the subsequent times,
if you haven't edited any of the native
code it's quite a lot quicker.
Have this experience illustrates we're
experts so much easier to get stuff.
Yeah, okay.
Cool, awesome.
Well, that was a chore and a half.
Yes, so this is the Hello World
template for React Native.
Using the React Native CLI, you notice
that there's a lot more going on.
And I've had people who are just new to
React Native kind of go, well, there's so
much going on I have no
idea where to start.
But don't worry, we're gonna basically
delete everything and start from scratch.
So we have the same experience
regardless of your platform.
So this is running on iOS,
and I'm also gonna show you how
to get this running on Android.
So if you are an Android user,
you've had to install Android Studio,
which I already have installed.
So I'm gonna just stop that,
hopefully didn't disappear
after my reckless upgrading
of operating system.
And we don't need to use Android Studio
to actually launch a project, but we will
need to launch the Android Virtual Device,
before running the start Android command.
So if you're on the latest
version of Android Studio,
I remember I was on 3.2 and
I didn't have this option.
But basically, if you launch it and you go
under Configure, you can open AVD manager,
AVD stands for Android Virtual Device.
And here you can create
your virtual devices.
So if you don't already have one,
you can basically go here,
click on Virtual Device,
you can choose the device,
you can choose which
version of Android it runs.
And you'll basically download all
the binaries and created for you.
This will also take other, well,
thankfully, here's one I made earlier.
And I'm just gonna
double-click to launch it.
There is a command, If you know the device
name, there is a command that you can run
to just launch the emulator
from your terminal.
But for the first time, it's just easy
to do it through the user interface.
And once this is launched,
you can actually go ahead and
just close Android Studio stuff
cuz this is pretty standalone.
Now, once this is open,
I basically run mpx
react-native run-android,
and then this will pick up this virtual
device and then install the app on it.
If you want to run this on your
phone instead, all you need to do is
take your phone and plug it into
your laptop, and close the emulator.
And then the AVD manager should
just pick up your phone.
If it doesn't,
there are some deep debugging tips here,
I think, yeah,
you have to enable USB debugging.
So I don't have an Android
device with me at the moment.
But basically you go on to version number
you tap on it's like seven times, and
that will enable developer tools, and
then you can enable the USB debugging and
then you can install it on your phone.
So it's a hassle.
I always use virtual devices if I'm
developing just client projects.
Cool,there it is, awesome.
Right, so now we have the both
the same exact application actually,
running on both iOS and
Android which is pretty cool.
Now, let's have a look at the folder
structure of a pure React Native project.
So this is the one that we just created,
and launched on the virtual devices.
And you can see that there's
already a whole lot more going on.
Now, the bits that are the most important
here is you notice that there's an Android
directory and an iOS directory.
And these directories basically
hold their native code.
So if you go in here, you'll have the app
delegate, there's a header file, and
there's the actual content file and
this is Objective-C.
And then the same Find List so
there's an Android equivalent to this.
So we're in here.
Leave the Java naming convention,
but very good.
This is the entry for the app.
Now most of the time,
you won't need to look at these.
But it's a good thing to know that
this is where the native code lives.
We'll still have module for
default or their dependencies, and
another thing to note is that
the react native template
actually comes with flow pre-installed,
they're still in the flow train.
So you'll have a buckleconfig and
a flowconfig,
we're not gonna be using flow for
this, so feel free to ignore them.
Finally, we also have prettierr and
we have some babel and
package.json, but
notice that we also have an Index.js.
So for Expo, Expo actually handles this
mounting your application on its own,
whereas with pure React Native,
it's kind of done explicitly.
But we still have an App.js,
which is where all our app code lives.
So this is the file that
you'll be working on.